Considering the need of science and religion to work together to truly reap the benefits of democracy. This shall be a corner where i write all thoughts on how this could be acheived
My aim would be to make things as easy to understand while not missing out on the details.

Science vs religion: 
The main reason for science to flourish has been one aspect : Uncertainity. Religious texts promote certainity of thought, certainly
because of reasons to control the surroundings. Man in his quest for meaning craves certainity. Men of science of the
contrary conclude that this certainity once acheived (if ever) would mean the failure of science.
Science involves questioning, argumetation , experimentation to conclude facts that can only survive one experiment that disporves 
a scienctific theory. Religion on the other hand comes up with ways for experimenaion of a set dogma of values and culture

The cumulation of a scientific religion requires an incremental change where uncertainity that science promotes (coming up with certain outcomes in the process)
joins hand with uncertainity of truth in religious beliefs. Intersection is important for large sides to see unity in human culture.

More importantly, if beehive believes in being social messengers of progressive thought. Subtle expression of the same is necessary.

"The typical human problem, and one whose answer religion aims to supply, is always of the following form: Should I do this? Should we do this? Should the government do this? To answer this question we can resolve it into two parts: First — If I do this, what will happen? — and second — Do I want that to happen? What would come of it of value — of good?

Now a question of the form: If I do this, what will happen? is strictly scientific. As a matter of fact, science can be defined as a method for, and a body of information obtained by, trying to answer only questions which can be put into the form: If I do this, what will happen? The technique of it, fundamentally, is: Try it and see. Then you put together a large amount of information from such experiences. All scientists will agree that a question — any question, philosophical or other — which cannot be put into the form that can be tested by experiment … is not a scientific question; it is outside the realm of science.

I claim that whether you want something to happen or not — what value there is in the result, and how you judge the value of the result (which is the other end of the question: Should I do this?), must lie outside of science because it is not a question that you can answer only by knowing what happens; you still have to judge what happens — in a moral way. So, for this theoretical reason I think that there is a complete consistency between the moral view — or the ethical aspect of religion — and scientific information."

-richard feynman

I don’t know the answer to this central problem — the problem of maintaining the real value of religion, as a source of strength and of courage to most [people], while, at the same time, 
not requiring an absolute faith in the metaphysical aspects.(science)
Western civilization, it seems to me, stands by two great heritages. 
One is the scientific spirit of adventure–the adventure into the unknown, 
an unknown which must be recognized as being unknown in order to be explored;
the demand that the unanswerable mysteries of the universe remain unanswered;
the attitude that all is uncertain; to summarize it — the humility of the intellect. 
The other great heritage is Christian ethics — the basis of action on love, the brotherhood of all men, the value of the individual — the humility of the spirit.

These two heritages are logically, thoroughly consistent. But logic is not all; one needs one’s heart to follow an idea. If people are going back to religion, what are they going back to? Is the modern church a place to give comfort to a man who doubts God — more, one who disbelieves in God? Is the modern church a place to give comfort and encouragement to the value of such doubts? So far, have we not drawn strength and comfort to maintain the one or the other of these consistent heritages in a
way which attacks the values of the other? Is this unavoidable? How can we draw inspiration to support these two pillars of Western civilization so that they may stand together in full vigor, mutually unafraid? Is this not the central problem of our time?

